R conditionals (#2249)
Codecademy/docs: content/r/concepts/conditionals/conditionals.md

---
Title: 'Conditionals'

> Description: 'Statements that return a boolean value that provide control flow in a program'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Conditional statements return a boolean value that provides control flow in a program.'
```

if (condition) {
  # code to be executed if condition is true
}
```

Here's an example:

```r
x <- 10

if (x > 5) {
  print("x is greater than 5")
}

```

In this example, the code inside the `if` block will be executed because the condition `x > 5` is true.

## If-Else Statement

The `if-else` statement allows you to execute one block of code if a condition is true, and another block of code if the condition is false. The general syntax is:

```r
if (condition) {
  # code to be executed if condition is true
} else {
  # code to be executed if condition is false
}

```

Here's an example:

```r
x <- 3

if (x > 5) {
  print("x is greater than 5")
} else {
  print("x is less than or equal to 5")
}

```

In this example, since the condition `x > 5` is false, the code inside the `else` block will be executed.

## Comparison Operators

Comparison operators in R allow you to compare values and produce logical results. Here are some commonly used comparison operators:

- `<` (less than): Returns `TRUE` if the left operand is less than the right operand.
    
    Example:
    
    ```r
    x <- 5
    y <- 10
    
    if (x < y) {
      print("x is less than y")
    }
    
    ```
    

>     Output: `x is less than y`

Reviewer 2: Usually we prefer using a separate shell block for displaying the output; however, with entries such as this, with many examples, we allow for commented outputs within the same block.

    
    Example:
    
    ```r
    x <- 5
    y <- 5
    
    if (x == y) {
      print("x is equal to y")
    }
    
    ```
    
    Output: `x is equal to y`
    
- `!=` (not equal to): Returns `TRUE` if the left operand is not equal to the right operand.
    
    Example:
    
    ```r
    x <- 5
    y <- 10
    
    if (x != y) {
      print("x is not equal to y")
    }
    
    ```
    
    Output: `x is not equal to y`
    
- `<=` (less than or equal to): Returns `TRUE` if the left operand is less than or equal to the right operand.
    
    Example:
    
    ```r
    x <- 5
    y <- 10
    
    if (x <= y) {
      print("x is less than or equal to y")
    }
    
    ```
    
    Output: `x is less than or equal to y`
    
- `>=` (greater than or equal to): Returns `TRUE` if the left operand is greater than or equal to the right operand.
    
    Example
    

:

```r
x <- 5
y <- 5

if (x >= y) {
  print("x is greater than or equal to y")
}

```

Output: `x is greater than or equal to y`

These operators are commonly used in conditional statements to compare values and make decisions.

## Logical Operators

> Logical operators in R allow you to combine or negate logical values. Here are the commonly used logical operators:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Logical operators in R allow can be used to combine or negate logical values. Here are the commonly used logical operators:
```

> - `&&` (and): Returns `TRUE` if both the left and right operands are `TRUE`.

Reviewer 2: I think this section should also be consolidated in two parts as above. List all of the operators with their definitions and then the examples.

    
    Example:
    
    ```r
    x <- 5
    y <- 10
    
    if (x > 0 && y > 0) {
      print("Both x and y are positive")
    }
    
    ```
    
    Output: `Both x and y are positive`
    
- `||` (or): Returns `TRUE` if either the left or right operand is `TRUE`.
    
    Example:
    
    ```r
    x <- 5
    y <- -10
    
    if (x > 0 || y > 0) {
      print("Either x or y is positive")
    }
    
    ```
    
    Output: `Either x or y is positive`
    
- `!` (not): Negates a logical value. If the operand is `TRUE`, it returns `FALSE`, and if the operand is `FALSE`, it returns `TRUE`.
    
    Example:
    
    ```r
    x <- 5
    
    if (!(x == 10)) {
      print("x is not equal to 10")
    }
    
    ```
    
    Output: `x is not equal to 10`
    

Logical operators are often used to combine multiple conditions in conditional statements or to negate a condition.

> These are the basic conditional statements, comparison operators, and logical operators in R. They allow you to control the flow of your program, compare values, and make decisions based on specific conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are the basic conditional statements, comparison operators, and logical operators in R. They can be leveraged to control the flow of a program, compare values, and make decisions based on specific conditions.
```

---

> Title: 'R - Conditionals'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: 'Conditionals'
```

> Description: 'A brief description on the usage of conditional statements, comparison and logic operators in R'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Statements that return a boolean value that provide control flow in a program.'
```

Subjects:

>   - 'Conditinal Statements'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Conditional Statements'
```

  - 'Comparison Operators'
  - 'Logical Operators'
Tags:
  - 'R'

>   - 'conditionals'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Conditionals'
```

>   - 'comparison'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Comparison'
```

>   - 'logic'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Logic'
```

>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    # Equal to (==) 
    x <- 5
    y <- 5
    
    if (x == y) {
      print("x is equal to y")
    }
    # Output: `x is equal to y`
    

    # Not equal to (!=) 
    x <- 5
    y <- 10
    
    if (x != y) {
      print("x is not equal to y")
    }
    # Output: `x is not equal to y`

    # Less than or equal to (<=)
    x <- 5
    y <- 10
    
    if (x <= y) {
      print("x is less than or equal to y")
    }
    # Output: `x is less than or equal to y`

    # Greater than or equal to (>=)
    x <- 5
    y <- 5

    if (x >= y) {
      print("x is greater than or equal to y")
    }
    # Output: `x is greater than or equal to y`
  ```

These operators are commonly used in conditional statements to compare values and make decisions.

## Logical Operators

Logical operators in R can be used to combine or negate logical values. Here are the commonly used logical operators:

- `&&` (and): Returns `TRUE` if both the left and right operands are `TRUE`.
- `||` (or): Returns `TRUE` if either the left or right operand is `TRUE`.
- `!` (not): Negates a logical value. If the operand is `TRUE`, it returns `FALSE`, and if the operand is `FALSE`, it returns `TRUE`.

Examples:

>   ```R

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```r
```
